Chapter 2 Filesystems

To check in which directory you are currently in use this command
pwd(print working directory)

To list all the sub-directories or files in the main directory use this command
ls(List)

To switch between the directories use the command
cd to move to another directory use cd directoryname if want to comeback use cd ..

An absolute file path will always start with a slash / and the relative path will not start with slash

The cat command is used to view the contents of a file. It's short for "concatenate," which is a fancy way of saying "put things together.
" It can feel like a confusing name if you're using the cat command to view a single file, but it makes more sense when you're using it
to view multiple files at once.

Start from 33:11 tomorrow

Head and Tail commands

The head command prints the first n lines of a file. The -n flag specifies n as shown:
head -n 10 file1.txt
If you don't specify a number using the -n flag, it will default to 10.

The tail command prints the last n lines of a file. The -n flag specifies n as shown:
tail -n 10 file1.txt

More and less commands are used to see the contetn from where you desire and the less command is actually more because it gives you 
feature of moving up and down so the less command is more used this is how to use the command

less file name
to see number of lines
less -N file name

to create a new empty file we use the command touch
touch newfile.txt

Move
The move command moves a file or directory from one location to another. You can use it to rename a file or to move it to a 
different directory altogether. Your working directory can't be the directory you're moving.

to rename a file use this 

mv originalfilename.txt renamefile.txt

to change the directory of the file use this 

mv origfile.txt ../foldername/

if you want to change the file name while moving use this

mv origfile.txt ../foldername/renamefile.txt


to remove a file use this command

rm filename

to remove a whole folder and directory use this command

rm -r folder

to link a file to a different location go to the folder where you want to link the file understand the below example

Folder 1 -> Where you want to link the file 
Folder 2 -> Where the file is actually present e.g name.txt

Cd Folder 1 

ln -s ../Folder2/name.txt

The file will be linked simply


To find something in a file here are the steps to do so 

grep "the thing you want to find" filename.txt

the required search will be visible


if you want to search in multiple directories

grep -r "keyword" .

the . is all the game

It helps you find in all the directories

To find a file in a directory here are the steps to follow

find -name filename.txt

if you know the relevent directory 
find releventdirectory -name filenmae.txt

if you want to search the file by pattern like the file of the same extnesion like .txt

find relevant directory -name "*.txt*"

if you want to find the files that contain the word you know 

find -name "*thewordyouwanttosearch"





